.TH HSTR 1
.SH NAME
\fBhstr\fR \-  easily view, navigate, sort and use your command history with shell history suggest box. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hstr [option] [arg1] [arg2]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hstr
uses shell history to provide suggest box like functionality
for commands used in the past. By default it parses .bash-history
file that is filtered as you type a command substring. Commands 
are not just filtered, but also ordered by a ranking algorithm
that considers number of occurences, length and timestamp. 
Favorite and frequently used commands can be bookmarked. In addition
\fBhstr\fR allows removal of commands from history - for instance with a typo 
or with a sensitive content.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\fB-h --help\fR
Show help
.TP 
\fB-n --non-interactive\fR
Print filtered history on standard output and exit
.TP 
\fB-k --kill-last-command\fR
Delete the last command from history and exit
.TP
\fB-f --favorites\fR
Show favorites view immediately
.TP 
\fB-s --show-configuration\fR
Show configuration that can be added to ~/.bashrc
.TP 
\fB-b --show-blacklist\fR
Show blacklist of commands to be filtered out before history processing
.TP 
\fB-V --version\fR
Show version information
.SH KEYS
.TP 
\fBpattern\fR
Type to filter shell history.
.TP 
\fBCtrl\-e\fR
Toggle regular expression and substring search.
.TP 
\fBCtrl\-t\fR
Toggle case sensitive search.
.TP 
\fBCtrl\-/\fR, \fBCtrl\-7\fR
Rotate view of history as provided by bash, ranked history ordered by the number of occurences/length/timestamp and favorites.
.TP 
\fBCtrl\-f\fR
Add currently selected command to favorites.
.TP 
\fBCtrl\-l\fR
Toggle search pattern case.
.TP
\fBCtrl\-r\fR, \fBUP\fR arrow, \fBDOWN\fR arrow, \fBCtrl\-n\fR, \fBCtrl\-p\fR, \fBCtrl\-j\fR, \fBCtrl\-k\fR
Navigate in the history list. 
.TP
\fBTAB\fR, \fBRIGHT\fR arrow
Choose currently selected item for completion and let user to edit it on the command prompt.
.TP
\fBLEFT\fR arrow
Choose currently selected item for completion and let user to edit it in editor (fix command).
.TP
\fBENTER\fR
Choose currently selected item for completion and execute it.
.TP 
\fBDEL\fR
Remove currently selected item from the shell history.
.TP
\fBBACKSPACE\fR, \fBCtrl\-h\fR
Delete last pattern character.
.TP
\fBCtrl\-u\fR, \fBCtrl\-w\fR
Delete pattern and search again.
.TP
\fBCtrl\-x\fR
Write changes to shell history and exit.
.TP
\fBCtrl\-g\fR
Exit with empty prompt.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
\fBhstr\fR defines the following environment variables:
.TP
\fBHSTR_CONFIG\fR
Configuration options:

\fIhicolor\fR 
        Get more colors with this option (default is monochromatic).

\fImonochromatic\fR 
        Ensure black and white view.

\fIprompt-bottom\fR
        Show prompt at the bottom of the screen (default is prompt at the top).

\fIhelp-on-opposite-side\fR
        Show help label on the opposite site (default is next to the prompt).

\fIhide-basic-help\fR
        Hide the basic help label.

\fIhide-help\fR
        Hide basic and history help labels. Implicitly sets hide-basic-help.

\fIno-confirm\fR
        Do not ask for confirmation on a history entry delete (default is with confirmation).

\fIregexp-matching\fR
        Filter command history using regular expressions. 

\fIsubstring-matching\fR
        Filter command history using substring.

\fIkeywords-matching\fR
        Filter command history using keywords - item matches if contains all keywords in pattern in any order (keywords match is default).

\fIcase-sensitive\fR
        Make history filtering case sensitive (it's case insensitive by default). 

\fIraw-history-view\fR
        Show normal history as a default view (metric-based view is shown otherwise). 

\fIfavorites-view\fR
        Show favorites as a default view (metric-based view is shown otherwise).

\fIstatic-favorites\fR
        Do not put recently used favorite to the head of favorites (favorites are reordered by default).

\fIskip-favorites-comments\fR
        Skip comments (lines beginning with #) when loading ~/.hstr_favorites (all lines are loaded by default).

\fIduplicates\fR
        Show duplicates in rawhistory (duplicates are discarded by default). 

\fIverbose-kill\fR
        Print the last command command deleted from history (nothing is printed by default).

\fIblacklist\fR
        Load list of commands to skip when processing history from ~/.hstr_blacklist (built-in blacklist used otherwise).

\fIkeep-page\fR
        Don't clear page with command selection on exit (page is cleared by default).

\fIbig-keys-skip\fR
        Skip big history entries i.e. very long lines (default).

\fIbig-keys-floor\fR
        Use different sorting slot for big keys when building metrics-based view (big keys are skipped by default).

\fIbig-keys-exit\fR
        Exit (fail) on presence of a big key in history (big keys are skipped by default).

\fIwarning\fR
        Show warning.

\fIdebug\fR
        Show debug information.

Example:
        \fBexport HSTR_CONFIG=hicolor,regexp-matching,raw-history-view\fR

.TP
\fBHSTR_PROMPT\fR
Change prompt string which is \fBuser@host$\fR by default.

Example:
        \fBexport HSTR_PROMPT="$ "\fR

.SH FILES
.TP
\fB~/.hstr_favorites\fR 
 Bookmarked favorite commands.
.TP
\fB~/.hstr_blacklist\fR 
 Commands to be hidden.

.SH BASH CONFIGURATION
Optionally add the following lines to ~/.bashrc:
.nf
.sp
alias hh=hstr                    # make hh alias of hstr
export HSTR_CONFIG=hicolor       # get more colors
shopt -s histappend              # append new history items to .bash_history
export HISTCONTROL=ignorespace   # leading space hides commands from history
export HISTFILESIZE=10000        # increase history file size (default is 500)
export HISTSIZE=${HISTFILESIZE}  # increase history size (default is 500)
# ensure synchronization between bash memory and history file
export PROMPT_COMMAND="history \-a; history \-n; ${PROMPT_COMMAND}"
# if this is interactive shell, then bind hstr to Ctrl-r (for Vi mode check doc)
if [[ $\- =~ .*i.* ]]; then bind '"\eC\-r": "\eC\-a hstr -- \eC-j"'; fi
.sp
.fi
.SH ZSH CONFIGURATION
Optionally add the following lines to ~/.zshrc:
.nf
.sp
export HSTR_CONFIG=hicolor            # get more colors
setopt histignorespace                # skip cmds w/ leading space from history
bindkey -s "\eC\-r" "\eC\-a hstr \-\- \eC\-j" # bind hstr to Ctrl-r (for Vi mode check doc)
.sp
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBhstr git\fR
 Start \fBhstr\fR and show only history items containing 'git'.
.TP
\fBhstr cpp add git\fR
 Start \fBhstr\fR and show only history items containing 'cpp', 'add' and 'git'.
.TP
\fBhstr --non-interactive git\fR
 Print history items containing 'git' to standard output and exit.
.TP
\fBhstr --show-configuration >> ~/.bashrc\fR
 Append default \fBhstr\fR configuration to your bash profile.
.TP
\fBhstr --show-configuration >> ~/.zhrc\fR
 Append default \fBhstr\fR configuration to your zsh profile.
.TP
\fBhstr --show-blacklist\fR
 Show blacklist configured for history processing.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Martin Dvorak <martin.dvorak@mindforger.com>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to https://github.com/dvorka/hstr/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR history (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR zsh (1)
